---
layout: post
title:  "Mitre | Try Hack Me"
date:   2021-07-01 13:17:21 +0800
categories: Res THM
---

# Mitre

## Task 2 - Basic Terminology 

An Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) is a a threat group or nation-state group (country), that engages in long-term cyber attacks. The advanced part doesn't mean they have advanced zero-day attacks necessarily.

**TTP** is an acronym for tactics, techniques and procedures, meaning:

* **Tactic** is the adversary's goals or objectives
* **Technique** is how they achieve the goals or objectives
* **Procedure** is how the technique is executed


## Task 3 - ATT&CK® Framework

The framework is a globally-accessible knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques based on real-worl observations. In records and documents common TTPs that are used by APT groups.

The [website](https://attack.mitre.org/) is useful for a range of uses, not just blue teamers but also pen testers and red teams.

### Questions

#### Only blue teamers will use the ATT&CK Matrix? (Yay/Nay)

Nay

#### What is the ID for this technique?

The technique being looked at is phising, which on [this page](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/) is the id 'T1566'

#### Based on this technique, what mitigation covers identifying social engineering techniques?

Scrolling down under the mitigations is 'User Training'

#### There are other possible areas for detection for this technique, which occurs after what other technique?

At the bottom of the page, 'User Execution'

#### What group has used spear phishing in their campaigns?

Near the top, 'Dragonfly'

#### Based on the information for this group, what are their associated groups?

'TG-4192, Crouching Yeti, IRON LIBERTY, Energetic Bear'

#### What tool is attributed to this group to transfer tools or files from one host to another within a compromised environment?

Under software they use 'PsExec' to move laterally.

#### Based on the information about this tool, what group used a customized version of it?

Clicking on the link and gonig [here](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0029/) is 'FIN5'

#### This group has been active since what year?

Going into [that](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0053/) page for 'FIN5' found they were active since '2008'

#### Instead of Mimikatz, what OS Credential Dumping tool is does this group use?

Scroll down and find 'Windows Credential Editor'


## Task 4 - CAR Knowledge Base

The Cyber Analytics Repository (CAR) is a knowledge base that is part of the MITRE ATT&CK® model. It contains pseudocode representations and actual implementations that are directly targeted towards specific tools for its analytics. It provides a set of validated analytics, with particular attentions given to the operating theory and rationale.

We can use the [Full Analytic List](https://car.mitre.org/analytics) or the [CAR ATT&CK® Navigator layer](https://mitre-attack.github.io/attack-navigator/beta/enterprise/#layerURL=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fmitre-attack%2Fcar%2Fmaster%2Fdocs%2Fcar_attack%2Fcar_attack.json)

### Questions

#### For the above analytic, what is the pseudocode a representation of?

Going to [this](https://car.mitre.org/analytics/CAR-2020-09-001/) website, it is an example of a 'splunk search'

#### What tactic has an ID of TA0003?

Searched it up [here](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/) and found 'Persistence'

#### What is the name of the library that is a collection of Zeek (BRO) scripts?

Went to the [main page](https://car.mitre.org/) and found 'bzar'

#### What is the name of the technique for running executables with the same hash and different names?

Did ctr-f with 'hash' on the [analytics page](https://car.mitre.org/analytics/) and found 'Masquerading'

#### Examine CAR-2013-05-004, what additional information is provided to analysts to ensure coverage for this technique?

Scroll to the bottom of the page to find 'Unit Tests'


## Task 5 - Shield Active Defence

Shield is an active defence knowledge base that is part of Mitre that is made to capture and organise learning about active defence and adversary engagement. 

Active Defence is explained by the U.S. DOD as "The employment of limited offensive action and counterattacks to deny a contested area or position to the enemy."

The Shielf is similar to the Attack Matrix but instead is caterered towards trapping and/or engaging with an adversary that is active in the network, such as deploying decoy credentials - this is threat intelligence.

The website can be found [here](https://shield.mitre.org/)

### Questions

#### Which Shield tactic has the most techniques?

detect

#### Is the technique 'Decoy Credentials' listed under the tactic from question #1? (Yay/Nay)

Going on the [page](https://shield.mitre.org/tactics/DTA0004/) for it, 'yay' it is listed.

#### Explore DTE0011, what is the ID for the use case where a defender can plant artifacts on a system to make it look like a virtual machine to the adversary?

Going under the Use Cases category on the [page](https://shield.mitre.org/techniques/DTE0011/) we can find 'DUC0234'

#### Based on the above use case, what is its ATT&CK® Technique mapping?

Scroll down and find 'T1497' which deals with 'Sanbox/Virtualisation Evasion'

#### Continuing from the previous question, look at the information for this ATT&CK® Technique, what 2 programs are listed that adversary's will check for?

Going onto the [page](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1497/) found it looks for 'Sysinternals and Wireshark'


## Task 6 - ATT&CK® Emulation Plans

If the above tools do not cut it there are also CTID, Adverysary Emulation Library, and ATT&CK® Emulation Plans under the [Mitre Engenuity](https://mitre-engenuity.org/)

### CITD

This is a Mitre organisation called the Centre of Threat-Informed Defence. It is a culmination of various companies and vendors that conducts research on cyber threats and their related TTPs.

Some of the consisting companies include:

* Microsoft
* Red Canary
* AttackIQ
* Verizon

### Adversary Emulation Library & ATT&CK® Emulations Plans

This is a public library of adversary emulation plans which is a free resource for both blue and red teams. These plans are a step-by-step guide on how a specific threat group may act.

This is useful in situations where a company may ask how they would fare if one of these plans acted against them.

### Questions

#### How many phases does APT3 Emulation Plan consists of?

Went on [this resource](https://attack.mitre.org/resources/adversary-emulation-plans/) and found '3' phases.

#### Under Persistence, what binary was replaced with cmd.exe?

On page 24 of [this pdf](https://attack.mitre.org/docs/APT3_Adversary_Emulation_Plan.pdf) found, 'sethc.exe'

#### Examining APT29, what 2 tools were used to execute the first scenario?

Found [this resource](https://github.com/center-for-threat-informed-defense/adversary_emulation_library/tree/master/apt29) which upon clicking on "Scenario 1 - Infrastructure" found they used 'pupy and metasploit'.

#### What tool was used to execute the second scenario?

Using the same github link as before, going to Scenario 2 can see they use 'PoshC2'

#### Where can you find step-by-step instructions to execute both scenarios?

'ATT&CK Arsenal'


## Task 7 - ATT&CK® and Threat Intelligence

Threat Intelligence (TI) or Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) is any information or TTPs that are attributed to a specific adversary. This can be used as defenders to provide insight on making better defensive decisions. Some companies such as **CrowdStrike** provide a paid service for this or can use ATT&CK® like with these questions.

### Questions

*Scenario: You are a security analyst who works in the aviation sector. Your organization is moving their infrastructure to the cloud. Your goal is to use the ATT&CK® Matrix to gather threat intelligence on APT groups who might target this particular sector and use techniques targeting your areas of concern. You are checking to see if there are any gaps in coverage. After selecting a group, look over the selected group's information and their tactics, techniques, etc.*


#### What is a group that targets your sector who has been in operation since at least 2013?

Went on [this website](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/) to look at groups. Looked for 2013 and aviation and found the 'APT33' group.

#### Does this group use Stuxnet? (Yay/Nay)

Look at their [group page](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0064/) but couldn't find Stuxnet. 'Nay'

#### As your organization is migrating to the cloud, is there anything attributed to this APT group that you should focus on? If so, what is it?

Looking down the list found 'cloud accounts' which is a teqhcnique used.

#### What tool is associated with this technique?

Went on [the page](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/004/) for this and found 'Ruler' was used by 'APT33'

#### Per the detection tip, what should you be detecting?

At the bottom of that page... 'abnormal or malicious behavior'

#### What platforms does this affect?

At the top of this page find 'Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Office 365, SaaS'