---
layout: post
title:  "Nessus | Try Hack Me"
date:   2021-06-28 17:13:24 +0800
categories: Res THM
---

# Nessus

## Installing Nessus on Kali

Went [here](https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus/nessus-essentials) and registered for an Activation Code.

Downloaded the 'Nessus-8.15.0-debian6_amd64.deb' file and then `sudo dpkg -i Nessus-8.15.0-debian6_amd64.deb` to unpackage it.

Then started the service by going `sudo /bin/systemctl start nessusd.service`.

Open 'https://localhost:8834/' in firefox now and ignore the warning and continue.

Using an essential account, can skip as we already have an Activation Code.

Create an account and login, once this compiled it is all setup!


## Task 3 - Navigation and Scans

#### What is the name of the button which is used to launch a scan?

New Scan

#### What side menu option allows us to create custom templates?

policies

#### What menu allows us to change plugin properties such as hiding them or changing their severity?

plugin rules

#### In the 'Scan Templates' section after clicking on 'New Scan', what scan allows us to see simply what hosts are alive?

Host Discovery

#### One of the most useful scan types, which is considered to be 'suitable for any host'?

Basic Network Scan

#### What scan allows you to 'Authenticate to hosts and enumerate missing updates'?

Credentialed Patch Audit

#### What scan is specifically used for scanning Web Applications? 

Web Application Tests


## Task 4 - Scanning!

## Questions

#### What option can we set under 'BASIC' (on the left) to set a time for this scan to run? This can be very useful when network congestion is an issue.

schedule

#### Under 'DISCOVERY' (on the left) set the 'Scan Type' to cover ports 1-65535. What is this type called?

port scan (all ports)

#### What 'Scan Type' can we change to under 'ADVANCED' for lower bandwidth connection?

Scan Low Bandwidth Links

#### After the scan completes, which 'Vulnerability' in the 'Port scanners' family can we view the details of to see the open ports on this host?

Nessus Syn Scanner

#### What Apache HTTP Server Version is reported by Nessus?

Going into the 'Apache HTTP Version' portion of the scan, found the version number was '2.4.99'.


## Task 5 - Scanning a Web Application!


#### What is the plugin id of the plugin that determines the HTTP server type and version?

Launched a web application scan against the port. 
Clicked on 'HTTP server type and version' and found plugin id of '10107'

#### What authentication page is discovered by the scanner that transmits credentials in cleartext?

Found a low severity vulnerabilty called 'Web Server Transmits Cleartext Credentials' which found 'login.php'

#### What is the file extension of the config backup?

Found a medium severity vulnerability called 'Backup Files Disclosure' which '.bak' as the file extension.

#### Which directory contains example documents? (This will be in a php directory)

Found a medium severity vulnerabilty called 'Browsable Web Directories' which has the following example directory:
'/external/phpids/0.6/docs/examples/'

#### What vulnerability is this application susceptible to that is associated with X-Frame-Options?

Found an info vulnerability relating to X-Frame-Options Called 'Missing or Permissive X-Frame-Options HTTP Response Header'

This talked about a vulnerability called 'Clickjacking'