---
layout: post
title:  "Wireshark 101 | Try Hack Me"
date:   2021-06-24 18:35:00 +0800
categories: Res THM
---

## Filtering Captures

```
and - operator: and / &&
or - operator: or / ||
equals - operator: eq / ==
not equal - operator: ne / !=
greater than - operator: gt /  >
less than - operator: lt / <
```

```
ip.addr == <IP Address>
ip.src == <SRC IP Address> and ip.dst == <DST IP Address>

tcp.port eq <Port #> or <Protocol Name>
udp.port eq <Port #> or <Protocol Name>
```


## Packet Dissection

### Frame - Layer 1
This shows the frame and any details that are specific to the Physical Layer

### Source [MAC] - Layer 2
The source and destination MAC addresses that constitute the Data Link Layer

### Source [IP] - Layer 3
Shows source and destination IPv4 addresses from the Network Layer

### Protocol - Layer 4
Shows details of protocol used - could be TCP or UDP - and source/destination ports. From the Transport layer

#### Protocol Errors
This is a subset of the 4th layer - showing reassembling details of segments from TCP

### Application Protocl - Layer 5
Shows details of the protocol being used - could be HTTP, SMB, FTP - from the Application layer

#### Application Data
An extension of layer 5, showing any application-specific data


## Task 7 - ARP Traffic

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) occurs on the second layer and deals with matching IP Addresses with MAC addresses. They have a REQUEST and RESPONSE messages. 

The message header has a field 'Opcode' which can contain either: 'Request(1)' or 'Reply(2)' 

Ensure 'View > Name Resolution > Ensure that Resolve Physical Addresses' is checked. Allows Wireshark to attempt to resolve physical addresses.

ARP Request packets can contain a '00:00:00:00:00:00' target MAC address which will mean it will broadcast to all machines.

### What is the Opcode for Packet 6?
Clicked on the 6th packet and inside Address Resolution Protocol (Request) was the opcode.

request (1)

### What is the source MAC Address of Packet 19?
Went to the 19th packet. Inside the ARP (request) part was the 'Sender MAC address'

'80:fb:06:f0:45:d7'

### What 4 packets are Reply packets?
Using the top filter bar, went: 'arp.opcode == 2'

This resulted in '76,400,459,520'

### What IP Address is at 80:fb:06:f0:45:d7?
Using the top filter bar, went: 'arp.opcode == 2 and eth.src == 80:fb:06:f0:45:d7'.

All 4 of these packets have the following Sender IP address: '10.251.23.1'


## Task 8 - ICMP Traffic

Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is used to analyse nodes on a server. Used in utilities such as ping and traceroute. Compromises of a request and reply.

ICMP Requests contain a type and code of the packet, a type 8 usually means request, and 0 is a reply. If these are altered could be suspicious.
Also contains timestamp which is when the ping was requested and random data.

ICMP Replies are very similar to requests but usually have a code of 0 confirming that it is a reply packet.

### What is the type for packet 4?
Clicked on packet 4 and looked under 'Internet Control Message Protocol' to find 'Type'

8

### What is the type for packet 5?
Did the same thing as before for 5.

0 was the type

### What is the timestamp for packet 12, only including month day and year?
Did the same thing as before but scrolled further down:

'May 30, 2013'

### What is the full data string for packet 18?
Same thing as before, expanded the 'Data' section at the bottom. Right clicked and went copy value

'08090a0b0c0d0e0f101112131415161718191a1b1c1d1e1f202122232425262728292a2b2c2d2e2f3031323334353637'


## TCP Traffic

Trickier to understand as it is a handshake process: 'Syn, syn-ack, ack'. Any other RST or other packets in between may be suspicious. 

Sequence and acknowledgement numbers are important to check out.
0 may indicate that the port was not open


## Task 10 - DNS Traffic

Domain Name Service (DNS) which is used to 'resolve' domain names with IP addresses.

DNS Query contains a first bit of information which could be UDP53 meaning that it passed or TCP 53 which means it could be suspicious.

DNS Response contains an answer to verify the query.

### What is being queried in packet 1?
Clicked on first packet, expanded Domain Name System (query) and then queries and the one inside of that. Then could fine 'Name' within this.
8.8.8.8.in-addr.arpa

### What site is being queried in packet 26?
Exactly same as last one.

'www.wireshark.org '

### What is the Transaction ID for packet 26?
A little bit higher. just under the DNS (query) container.

'0x2c58'


## Task 11 - HTTP Traffic

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTML) is commonly used, not as common as HTTPS however. It can contain GET and POST requests to a web server to recieve dta.

Is very simple, doesn't contain handshakes. Information isn't encrypted and so can find the Request URI, File Data and Server.

Can find a useful anaylsis tool by going 'statistics > Protocol Hierarchy'
Can export a HTTP object by going 'file > Export Object > HTTP'
Can find all endpoints in a capture by going 'Statistics > Endpoints'

### What percent of packets originate from Domain Name System?
Got up protocol hierarchy statistics.

Found '4.7'

### What endpoint ends in .237?
Found endpoint statistics, clicked on IPv4.

Found '145.254.160.237'

### What is the user-agent listed in packet 4?
Inside the 'Hyptertext Transfer Protocol' category found

'Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.6) Gecko/20040113'

### Looking at the data stream what is the full request URI from packet 18?
It's going to being with 'HTTP://' because it is HTTP

Added on the 'Host' and 'Request URI' afterwards to get the following:

or... be smart and scroll down to the bottom to find 'Full Request URI'

'HTTP://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/ads?client=ca-pub-2309191948673629&random=1084443430285&lmt=1082467020&format=468x60_as&output=html&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.ethereal.com%2Fdownload.html&color_bg=FFFFFF&color_text=333333&color_link=000000&color_url=666633&color_border=666633 '

### What domain name was requested from packet 38?
Same as above to find 'http://www.ethereal.com/download.html ' so the domain is 'www.etheral.com '

### Looking at the data stream what is the full request URI from packet 38?
'http://www.ethereal.com/download.html '


## Task 12 - HTTPS Traffic

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is a bit harder to understand.

Before sending encrypted information a secure tunnel must be made:
1. Client/server both agree on protocol version
2. Client/server select a cryptographic algorithm
3. Client and server can authenticate to each other (optional)
4. Create secure tunnel with public key

There is a 'Client Hello' sent with details. Then a 'Server Hello' which will include sesion details and SSL certification information. Finally a Client Key Exchange Packet will be sent to figure out the public key.

After the server confirming the public key, a secure tunnel will be created and everything after that will need a secret to to decrypt any of the data.
To do this in Wireshark, go: 'Edit > Preferences > TLS > edit'

In the case of this exercise added a new with the following:
```
ip address:	127.0.0.1
port:		starts_tls
protocol:	http
key file: 	/home/kali/Desktop/snakeoil2/rsasnakeoil2.key
```

### Looking at the data stream what is the full request URI for packet 31?
Looked inside 'Transmission Control Protocol > Hypertext Transfer Protocol' to find it.

'https://localhost/icons/apache_pb.png'

### Looking at the data stream what is the full request URI for packet 50?
Same as before:

'https://localhost/icons/back.gif'

### What is the User-Agent listed in packet 50?
Same as before:

'Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; fr; rv:1.8.0.2) Gecko/20060308 Firefox/1.5.0.2'


## Analysing Exploit PCAP's

Finding an IP address that is using all sorts of protocols and traffic especially in quick suscession may be worth isolating and filtering that IP to investigate.