---
layout: post
title:  "Yara | Try Hack Me"
date:   2021-07-02 13:40:57 +0800
categories: Res THM
---

# Yara

## Task 2 - What is Yara?

Yarra is a language that has the ability to identify information based on both binary and textual patterns; this includes hexademical and also strings inside a file.

Yarra has **rules** that are used to label the patterns. These rules are frequently used to decide if a file is malicious or not based on the features and patterns within a file.

Strings are fundamental to programming languages, and use strings to store data like text.

Malware uses strings to store textual data, for example:

* A ransomware software may store "12t9YDPgwueZ9NyMgw519p7AA8isjr6SMw" which is a Bitcoin wallet for ransom payments
* A botnet may store "12.34.56.7" which could be the IP address of a given command and control (C&C) server.

### Questions

#### What is the name of the base-16 numbering system that Yara can detect?

Hex. Short for hexadecimal

#### Would the text "Enter your Name" be a string in an application? (Yay/Nay)

Yay


## Task 3 - Installing Yara

In order to install this on Kali do the following:

1. `sudo apt update -y && sudo apt upgrade -y` Which will update and upgrade the package manager
2. `sudo apt install yara` to install Yarra.


## Task 5 - Introduction to Yara Rules

Whenever using the `yarra` command, there are two arguments that have to be provided and valid:

1. The rule file that you are using (a '**.yar**' file)
2. The File / Directory / Process ID to use the rule on

*Ie. `yara rule.yar myDirectory`*

### The Task

Make a blank file called 'blank'

Now create a new **.yar** file called 'rule.yar', inside of it put the following:

```
rule printMe {
	condition: true
}
```

If we run `yara rules.yar blank` it will print 'printMe blank' as blank is a file that exists which is checked with `condition: true` and then it print the top part of the rule 'printMe' if this is the case.

*Note: if instead of 'blank' on the command try `yara rules.yar abcdefgh` it won't output as its not a file*


## Task 6 - Expanding on Yara Rules

Go [here](https://yara.readthedocs.io/en/stable/writingrules.html) to read the Yara docs on writing rules.

### Meta

This section is reserverd for any information that is included for descriptive purposes by the author. Can also use `desc` for short, its verly similar to a comment. This isn't run or affect the code in any way.

### Strings

This section is dedicated to the string matching talked about earlier. You can use this to search for any specific text or any hex from files and programs. 

To write a program to find any files containing "Hello World" can do:

```
rule helloworld_checker {
	strings:
		$hello_world = "Hello World"
}
```

The `$hello_world` part is creating a variable. Now we need to add a 'condition' to check if this is true. So:

```
rule helloworld_checker {
	strings:
		$hello_world = "Hello World"

	condition:
		$hello_world
}
```

Now this will match if any file has the string "Hello World". This is case and punctuation sensitive.

If you wanted to match with multiple casing would have to manually add each possibility to the strings section and then in the condition can instead use `any of them` to match with any of the strings.

```
rule helloworld_checker {
	strings:
		$hello_world = "Hello World"
		$hello_world_lowercase = "hello world"
		$hello_world_uppercase = "HELLO WORLD"

	condition:
		any of them
}
```

This will match with either of those 3 casings.

### Conditions

As previously mentioned there is the `true` and `any of them` condition, but there are also the other programming inclusions of `<=`, `>` and `!=`. 

This could be used in the following to check if less than or equal to 10 occurences of the string is matched:

```
rule helloworld_checker {
	strings:
		$hello_world = "Hello World"

	condition:
		$hello_world <= 10
}
```

### Combining Keywords

Can use keywords from other languages such as `and`, `not` and `or` within the conditions.

For example could have the following:

```
rule helloworld_textfile_checker {
	strings:
		$hello_world = "Hello World"
		$txt_file = ".txt"
	condition:
		$hello_world and $txt_file
}

```

The following is a [handy document](https://medium.com/malware-buddy/security-infographics-9c4d3bd891ef#18dd) that could come in handy to understand the anatomy of a Yara rule.


## Task 7 - Yara Modules

There are frameworks that allow you to improve the technicality of Yara rules, some include:

* [Cuckoo Snadbox](https://cuckoosandbox.org/)
* [Python's PE Module](https://pypi.org/project/pefile/)

### Cuckoo

This is an automated malware analysis, which can be used to generate Yara rules upon the discovering of behaviour in the sandbox. This environment executes malware and because of this it will create rules based on these specific behaviours such as the runtime strings.

### Python PE

This module allows the creation of rules based on the various sections and parts of the Windows Portable Executable (PE) structure, which is an essential technique in malware analysis. 

This can identify behaviours in cryptography or worming before having to reverse engineer or execute the potential malware sample.


## Task 8 - Other tools and Yara

There are various tools and resources that are able to create custom rules without having to learn Yara from scratch.

### LOKI

This is a free Open Source, IOC (Indicator of Compromise) scanner.

Looking at the [Github page](https://github.com/Neo23x0/Loki/releases) the detection is based on 4 methods:

1. File name IOC check
2. Yara rule check
3. Hash check
4. C2 Back Connect Check

*Note: there are additional checks not discussed here*

### THOR

Thor Lite is the newest multi-platform IOC and YARA scanner built by the same author of Loki. The lite version limits exhausting the CPU resoures by utilising scan throttling. You can download it [here](https://www.nextron-systems.com/thor-lite/)

*Note: The main Thor program is built for corporate customer, the lite version is free*

### FENRIR

This is the third program made by the same author as Loki and Thor. [This version](https://github.com/Neo23x0/Fenrir) addresses issues from the predecessors that had requirements made for them to work. This is now a BASH script that can be run on most systems.

### YAYA

This tool wasn't made by the same author but instea the Electronic Froniter Foundatino (EFF) to "help researches manage multiple YARA rule repositioires". It starts off with default high-quality rules that were created, and then lets some be disabled and the ability to add their own over the top.


## Task 9 - Using Loki

Loki is good as it has predefined tools that are already exist as well as allow for new rules to be added more easily.

*Note: if setting this up make sure you do `--update` on it to add the signature-base*

### Questions

*Scenario: You are the security analyst for a mid-size law firm. A co-worker discovered suspicious files on a web server within your organization. These files were discovered while performing updates to the corporate website. The files have been copied to your machine for analysis. The files are located in the suspicious-files directory. Use Loki to answer the questions below.*

#### Scan file 1. Does Loki detect this file as suspicious/malicious or benign?

Went inside of the 'file1' folder and run Loki by going `python ../../tools/Loki/loki.py -p .`

It gave the following `[RESULT] Suspicious objects detected!`

So it is 'suspicious'

#### What Yara rule did it match on?

`REASON_1: Yara Rule MATCH: webshell_metaslsoft SUBSCORE: 70`

So it matched on 'webshell_metaslsoft'

#### What does Loki classify this file as?

It says that it is a 'Web Shell'

#### Based on the output, what string within the Yara rule did it match on?

'Str1' is the string it matched on.

#### What is the name and version of this hack tool?

At the top is the following `FIRST_BYTES: 3c3f7068700a2f2a0a09623337346b20322e320a / <?php/*b374k 2.2 `

So name and version is 'b374k 2.2'

#### Inspect the actual Yara file that flagged file 1. Within this rule, how many strings are there to flag this file?

Inside of the `Loki/signature-base/yara` directory did `grep * -e 'webshell_metaslsoft'` which found 'thor-webshells.yar' to contain this flag. Now used `vim thor-webshells.yar` to go inside of it.

Searched for our rule by going `?metas` and found the rule:

```
rule webshell_metaslsoft {
        meta:
                description = "Web Shell - file metaslsoft.php"
                license = "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/"
                author = "Florian Roth"
                date = "2014/01/28"
                score = 70
                hash = "aa328ed1476f4a10c0bcc2dde4461789"
        strings:
                $s7 = "$buff .= \"<tr><td><a href=\\\"?d=\".$pwd.\"\\\">[ $folder ]</a></td><td>LINK</t"
        condition:
                all of them
}
```

As you can see there is only '1' string in this rule.

#### Scan file 2. Does Loki detect this file as suspicious/malicious or benign?

Inside of the file2 directory did `python ../../tools/Loki/loki.py -p .` again and got the following:

`[RESULT] SYSTEM SEEMS TO BE CLEAN.`

So it is 'benign'

#### Inspect file 2. What is the name and version of this web shell?

Did `vim 1ndex.php ` and inside of the file was 'b374k shell 3.2.3'

So the answer is 'b374k 3.2.3'


## Task 10 - Creating Yara rules with yarGen

This is [another program](https://github.com/Neo23x0/yarGen) made by the same author as Loki and the rest. It is made to create yara rules from strings found inside of malware files. This also somehow removes trings found in good software.

This is handy instead of manually adding strings from a known malware to detect it... like file2 from the previous exercise.

### Using yarGen

Can do the following for the exercises in this room: `python3 yarGen.py -m /home/cmnatic/suspicious-files/file2 --excludegood -o /home/cmnatic/suspicious-files/file2.yar`

The parameters above do the following:

* the `-m` is the path that will be used to generate rules from
* the `--excludegood` ensures that all 'goodware' strings are ignored and excluded
* the `-o` is the output file location

*Note: make sure to update if on own system with `python3 yarGen.py --update`
Also not that there is another tool called [yarAnalyser](https://github.com/Neo23x0/yarAnalyzer/) that can be helpful
Also [this website](https://www.bsk-consulting.de/2015/02/16/write-simple-sound-yara-rules/) is a good resource*

### Questions

#### From within the root of the suspicious files directory, what command would you run to test Yara and your Yara rule against file 2?

Inside of the yarGen folder did `python3 yarGen.py -m /home/cmnatic/suspicious-files/file2 --excludegood -o /home/cmnatic/suspicious-files/file2.yar`

Now inside the suspicious files directory you can go `yara file2.yar file2/1ndex.php`

#### Did Yara rule flag file 2? (Yay/Nay)

Yay. it does

#### Test the Yara rule with Loki, does it flag file 2? (Yay/Nay)

Did `cp file2.yar ../tools/Loki/signature-base/yara/` to copy it into the signatures folder.

Now back inside of the 'file2' directory did `python ../../tools/Loki/loki.py -p .`. This time 'Yay' it does :)

#### What is the name of the variable for the string that it matched on?

This gave the following:

```
MATCHES: Str1: var Zepto=function(){function G(a){return a==null?String(a):z[A.call(a)]||"object"}function H(a){return G(a)=="function"}fun Str2: $c ... (truncated)
```

So it matched on 'Zepto'

#### Inspect the Yara rule, how many strings were generated?

Inside of `vim file2.yar` found the strings:

```
strings:
      $x1 = "var Zepto=function(){function G(a){return a==null?String(a):z[A.call(a)]||\"object\"}function H(a){return G(a)==\"function\"}fun" ascii
      $s2 = "$cmd = execute(\"taskkill /F /PID \".$pid);" fullword ascii
      $s3 = "return (res = new RegExp('(?:^|; )' + encodeURIComponent(key) + '=([^;]*)').exec(document.cookie)) ? (res[1]) : null;" fullword ascii
      $s4 = "$cmd = trim(execute(\"ps -p \".$pid));" fullword ascii
      $s5 = "$buff = execute(\"wget \".$url.\" -O \".$saveas);" fullword ascii
      $s6 = "(d=\"0\"+d);dt2=y+m+d;return dt1==dt2?0:dt1<dt2?-1:1},r:function(a,b){for(var c=0,e=a.length-1,g=h;g;){for(var g=j,f=c;f<e;++f)0" ascii
      $s7 = "$buff = execute(\"curl \".$url.\" -o \".$saveas);" fullword ascii
      $s8 = "$cmd = execute(\"kill -9 \".$pid);" fullword ascii
      $s9 = "$cmd = execute(\"tasklist /FI \\\"PID eq \".$pid.\"\\\"\");" fullword ascii
      $s10 = "$body = preg_replace(\"/<a href=\\\"http:\\/\\/www.zend.com\\/(.*?)<\\/a>/\", \"\", $body);" fullword ascii
      $s11 = "ngs.mimeType||xhr.getResponseHeader(\"content-type\")),result=xhr.responseText;try{dataType==\"script\"?(1,eval)(result):dataTyp" ascii
      $s12 = "execute(\"tar xzf \\\"\".basename($archive).\"\\\" -C \\\"\".$target.\"\\\"\");" fullword ascii
      $s13 = "execute(\"tar xf \\\"\".basename($archive).\"\\\" -C \\\"\".$target.\"\\\"\");" fullword ascii
      $s14 = "$check = strtolower(execute(\"python -h\"));" fullword ascii
      $s15 = "$buff = execute(\"lynx -source \".$url.\" > \".$saveas);" fullword ascii
      $s16 = "$check = strtolower(execute(\"perl -h\"));" fullword ascii
      $s17 = "$check = strtolower(execute(\"nodejs -h\"));" fullword ascii
      $s18 = "$check = strtolower(execute(\"javac -help\"));" fullword ascii
      $s19 = "$check = strtolower(execute(\"node -h\"));" fullword ascii
      $s20 = "$check = strtolower(execute(\"gcc --help\"));" fullword ascii
```

So there are '20' strings that were generated

#### One of the conditions to match on the Yara rule specifies file size. The file has to be less than what amount?

This rule also has :

```
   condition:
      uint16(0) == 0x3f3c and filesize < 700KB and
      1 of ($x*) and 4 of them

```
So '700KB'


## Task 11 - Valhalla

[This once](https://www.nextron-systems.com/valhalla/) again is made by the same author as the others, and is an online Yara feed, with the ability to conduct searches based through a few methods like sha256, rule name or ATT&CK.

This tool is useful for more threat intelligence, if you know a file is malicious and you want to investigate.

[This Website](https://valhalla.nextron-systems.com/) contains the actual front-end.

### Questions

#### Enter the SHA256 hash of file 1 into Valhalla. Is this file attributed to an APT group? (Yay/Nay)

Did `sha256sum file1/ind3x.php` to get the sha256 checksum of the file which is `5479f8cd1375364770df36e5a18262480a8f9d311e8eedb2c2390ecb233852ad`

Put that in a query and at the bottom found this description for 'Webshell_b374k_Jan18_1' that said it was used for a Chinese APT group so this is a 'yay'

#### Do the same for file 2. What is the name of the first Yara rule to detect file 2?

Did `sha256sum file2/1ndex.php` for this one and got `53fe44b4753874f079a936325d1fdc9b1691956a29c3aaf8643cdbd49f5984bf`

Putting this into Valhalla as a query found `Webshell_b374k_rule1` as the first yara rule.

#### Examine the information for file 2 from Virus Total (VT). The Yara Signature Match is from what scanner?

Clicking on the VT link showed that this was the 'THOR APT Scanner'

#### Enter the SHA256 hash of file 2 into Virus Total. Did every AV detect this as malicious? (Yay/Nay)

Using [this link](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/home/search) for Virus total searched the sha256 checksum. 

Some AVs detected this as malicious but not all... so 'nay'

#### Besides .PHP, what other extension is recorded for this file?

Going into detals found 'exe'

#### Back to Valhalla, inspect the Info for this rule. Under Statistics what was the highest rule match per month in the last 2 years? (YYYY/M)

Went [here](https://valhalla.nextron-systems.com/info/rule/Webshell_b374k_rule1) on statistics and found '2021/3'

#### What JavaScript library is used by file 2?

By going on the [Github page](https://github.com/b374k/b374k) found that it uses 'Zepto'

#### Is this Yara rule in the default Yara file Loki uses to detect these type of hack tools? (Yay/Nay)

'Nay'